.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH adctl 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
adctl \- run an AD process script
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3adctl\f1
[\f3-s \f2s_systemname\f1] [\f3-p\f1|\f3-c\f1|\f3-r\f1] [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-f\f1] \f2script\f1 [\f2args\f1...]
.sp
\f3adctl\f1
[\f3-s \f2s_systemname\f1] \f3-l\f1 [\f3-l\f1|\f3-e\f1|\f3-u\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "adctl"
.P
\f3adctl\f1 locates the AutoConfig generated script file(s) for starting or
stopping services for \f2script\f1 and supplies any arguments given as
\f2args\f1...
.P
Only scripts whose \f3process status\f1 (\f3service status\f1 in Release 12) is "enabled"
will be executed, unless the \f3-f\f1 flag is supplied.
.P
\f2script\f1 can be any shell pattern that matches a unique name for a script.
Preference is given to \f2name\f1s that match:
.RS
.P
\f5ad\f2name\f1\f5ctl.sh\f1
.RE
.P
After that, other matches are considered.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-s \f2s_systemname\f1
Specify the name of the eBusiness system.
.TP
\f3\-p\f1
Append the \f5apps\f1 user's name and password to \f2args\f1..., as determined
from 
.BR getappspass (1).
.TP
\f3\-c\f1
Append the \f5operator\f1 user's name and password to \f2args\f1..., as determined
from 
.BR adcpusr (1).
.TP
\f3\-r\f1
Perform non-blocking reads on standard input of first the (apps or operator)
username and then the password. Append the username and password to
\f2args\f1...
.TP
\f3\-n\f1
Do not execute the script (if found) just print the output.
.TP
\f3\-f\f1
Force execution of scripts that are "disabled".
.TP
\f3\-l\f1
List the available scripts (irrespective of their being "enabled").
Repeat for "long" listing.
.TP
\f3\-e\f1
Show the enabled status of the scripts from the context file.
.TP
\f3\-u\f1
Show the usage message from the script, if any.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Print the command to start the Apache service:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7adctl -s SID -n apc stop\f5
/u??/app/SID/comn/admin/scripts/CONTEXT_NAME/adapcctl.sh stop
.fi
.P
Show enabled status listing:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7adctl -s SID -l -e\f5
  Oracle Apache Server CONTEXT_NAME              adapcctl.sh
  Oracle Restricted Apache Server CONTEXT_NAME   adaprstctl.sh  Disabled
  Oracle Apache Server CONTEXT_NAME for PL/SQL   adapcctl.sh    Disabled
  OracleTNSListener80APPS_CONTEXT_NAME           adalnctl.sh
  Oracle TCF SocketServer CONTEXT_NAME           adtcfctl.sh    Disabled
  OracleConcMgrCONTEXT_NAME                      adcmctl.sh     Disabled
  OracleFormsServer-Forms60CONTEXT_NAME          adfrmctl.sh
  OracleReportServer-Rep60_SID                   adrepctl.sh    Disabled
  Oracle Metrics Client CONTEXT_NAME             adfmcctl.sh
  Oracle Metrics Server CONTEXT_NAME             adfmsctl.sh
  Oracle ICSM CONTEXT_NAME                       ieoicsm.sh     Disabled
  Oracle Fulfillment Server CONTEXT_NAME         jtffmctl.sh
  Oracle iProcurement Bulk Loader CONTEXT_NAME   icxblkctl.sh   Disabled
  Oracle Discoverer services CONTEXT_NAME        addisctl.sh
  Oracle MWA Service CONTEXT_NAME                mwactlwrpr.sh  Disabled
.fi
.P
Force the command to start the MWA service to be executed even though it is
disabled in the context file:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7adctl -s SID -f mwac start\f5
/u??/app/SID/comn/admin/scripts/CONTEXT_NAME/mwactlwrpr.sh start
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adcpusr (1),
.BR adsvcctl (1M),
.BR getappspass (1),
.BR nbread (1)
