.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH adenv 1 "22 Sep 2000"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
adenv \- set up environment for Oracle/Applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Korn Shell
.nf
\f3\&. adenv\f1 [\f3-a\f1[\f3-x\f1]] [\f3-nvpht\f1] [\f2sid\f1]
\f3\&. adenv\f1 \f3-d\f1[\f3-ow\f1] [\f3-nvpht\f1] [\f2sid\f1]
\f3\&. adenv\f1 \f3-i\f1[\f3-o\f1] [\f3-nvpht\f1] [\f2sid\f1]
.fi
.SS Bourne Shell
.nf
\f1[\f5ORACLE_SID=\f2sid\f1][\f5TWO_TASK=\f2sid\f1] \f3\&. adenv\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "adenv" "" "\fLadenv\fP \(em set environment ORACLE"
\f3adenv\f1 is used to modify a user's environment for access to
an ORACLE database. It must be supplied with a value for the new \f2sid\f1.
.P
\f3adenv\f1 is intended as a replacement for 
.BR oraenv (1)
in 11i/R12 eBusiness environments.
.P
It uses the environment files created by a standard RapidInstall
autoconfig configuration rather than using 
.BR oratab (4)
to determine the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1.
.P
The Bourne shell does not support the passing of arguments to "sourced" files.
Shell (or environment) variables must be used to supply the \f2sid\f1:
.TP
\f5TWO_TASK\f1
This implies \f3-a\f1.
.TP
\f5ORACLE_SID\f1
This implies \f3-d\f1. Although if \f5TWO_TASK\f1 is set it will override this.
To ensure that \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 (and \f3-d\f1) is used under these
circumstances, unset \f5TWO_TASK\f1:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7TWO_TASK= ORACLE_SID=PRD . adenv\f1
.fi
.P
The Internet Application Server \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 cannot be set from the
Bourne shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-a\f1
Search for the environment file for the Applications \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 to 
source. The is the default behaviour.
This ORACLE_HOME corresponds to the s_tools_oh context variable.
.TP
\f3-d\f1
Search for the environment file for the "Database" \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 to source.
This ORACLE_HOME corresponds to the s_db_oh context variable.
.TP
\f3-i\f1
Search for the environment file for the "iAS" \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 to source.
This corresponds to the s_weboh_oh context variable.
.TP
\f3-o\f1
If the \f3-d\f1 option is specified the applications environment file will not
be sourced. Obsolete, this option is implied by \f3-d\f1.
.TP
\f3-w\f1
Warning about missing entries for the database in the oratab file.
.TP
\f3-x\f1
Normally the file:
.nf
	\f5$APPL_TOP/APPS${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`\f5.env\f1
.fi
will be searched for in preference to sourcing the files individually:
.nf
	\f5$ORA_TOP/${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`.env\f1
	\f5$APPL_TOP/${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`\f5.env\f1
.fi
This option suppresses that behaviour.
.TP
\f3-v\f1
Verbose. Ordinarily \f3adenv\f1 does not inform the user of the settings made.
Presence of this option prints a short summary of changes made to the
environment.
.TP
\f3-n\f1
Ordinarily, if the environment variable \f5TWO_TASK\f1 is set then the
environment variable \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 will be unset. 
Specifying \f3-n\f1 overrides this behaviour.
.TP
\f3-p\f1
If you have completely hosed your environment, supplying this option will
re-read the files \f5/etc/profile\f1 and \f5$HOME/.profile\f1 (in that order)
before setting the Oracle environment
in attempt to re-instate the correct environment. This does presuppose that 
these environment files behave in a standard manner. eg \f5PATH\f1 will not be
repeatedly recursively set through the use of these files and is expliclitly
set in at least one of these files (in this instance usually
\f5/etc/profile\f1.)
.TP
\f3-h\f1
Prefix the hostname to the PS1 prompt.
.TP
\f3-t\f1
Set the terminal title if possible.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.TP 30
\f5$ORA_TOP/\f2version\fP\f5/${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`.env\f1
Environment file for APPL_TOP ORACLE_HOME (8.0.6)
.TP 30
\f5$ORA_TOP/iAS/${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`.env\f1
Environment file for iAS ORACLE_HOME 
.TP 30
\f5$DB_TOP/\f2version\fP\f5/${ORACLE_SID}_`hostname`.env\f1
Environment file for Database ORACLE_HOME (8i/9i)
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`.env\f1
Environment file for APPL_TOP
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/custom${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`.env\f1
Environment file for customisations in APPL_TOP
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/${TWO_TASK}.env\f1
Copy of above (Environment file for APPL_TOP) for adrelink.sh
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/APPSORA.env\f1
Sources environment file for APPL_TOP and APPL_TOP ORACLE_HOME for the 
default system
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/APPS${TWO_TASK}_`hostname`\f5.env\f1
APPSORA.env for environment ${TWO_TASK}
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The variables \f5SG_ORACLE_SID\f1 and \f5SG_TWO_TASK\f1 can be set to be the
colour of the \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 and \f5TWO_TASK\f1 variables respectively as
they appear in the \f5PS1\f1 string.
.P
Valid colours are those supported by the VT colour system. That is:
.IR black ,
.IR red ,
.IR green ,
.IR yellow ,
.IR blue ,
.IR magenta ,
.IR cyan ,
.IR white
.P
Specifiying an invalid colour will result in the colour \f2black\f1 being
used.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctxvar (1),
.BR ksh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR rwtop (1),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH NOTES
.P
The environment files sourced by \f3adenv\f1 change the \f5PATH\f1
environment variable to contain the new 
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/bin\f1, and remove the previous \f5$ORACLE_HOME/bin\f1. 
Therefore, it is not necessarily sufficient to change the values for 
\f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 and \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 to access a different ORACLE database.
.P
Since 
.BR sh (1)
does not support arguments to sourced files only the second form of the
command is available when using this shell. The extra options are therefore not
available in the Bourne shell. 
