.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH adstatus 1 "16 Jun 1999"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
adstatus \- print status of e-Business Suite subsystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3adstatus\f1 [\f3-q\f1[\f3-v\f1]|\f3-l\f1|\f3-e\f1|\f3-n\f1] [\f3-a\f1|\f3-d\f1] [\f3-g \f2mode\f1] [\f3-p\f1] [\f3-u\f1] [\f3-w \f2num\f1]
	[\f3-s \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 [\f3-r \f2rhost\f1]] [\f3-t \f2TWO_TASK\f1] [\f3-T \f2type\f1 [\f2rpt\f1...]]
.sp
\f3adps\f1 [\f3-q\f1[\f3-v\f1]|\f3-l\f1|\f3-e\f1|\f3-n\f1] [\f3-g \f2mode\f1] [\f3-p\f1] [\f3-u\f1] [\f3-w \f2num\f1]
	[\f3-s \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 [\f3-r \f2rhost\f1]] [\f3-t \f2TWO_TASK\f1] [\f2rpt\f1...]
.sp
\f3adtns\f1 [\f3-q\f1[\f3-v\f1]|\f3-l\f1|\f3-e\f1|\f3-n\f1] [\f3-g \f2mode\f1] [\f3-p\f1] [\f3-u\f1] [\f3-w \f2num\f1]
	[\f3-s \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 [\f3-r \f2rhost\f1]] [\f3-t \f2TWO_TASK\f1] [\f2rpt\f1...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "adstatus" "" "\fLadstatus\fP \(em print ORACLE_SID"
\f3adstatus\f1 provides a convenient way to run reports for various processes
for an e-Business Suite installation. Its use depends on the existence of
a \f5COMMON_TOP\f1 for the database, as described in the installation manual
for Oracle e-Business Suite.
.P
The valid reports for the database can be shown with the \f3-l\f1 option. Unless
the \f3-s\f1 option is used the database queried will be the current one.
.P
When invoked as \f3adstatus\f1 the services which are enabled (shown with 
the \f3-e\f1) option have their command script invoked with the "status"
argument. By default, the status for all services of all types is queried; to
show the status of specific services the type option must be given with
\f3-T\f1.
.P
Otherwise, (for \f3adps\f1 and \f3adtns\f1) a report is located to be run (the
location of the reports is described below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\f3\-q\f1
Invoke \f3adstatus\f1 in "quiet" mode. Do not print any output.
.TP 
\f3\-v\f1
Verify mode. Print the subsystems for which no processes have been started.
Implies \f3\-q\f1.
.TP
\f3\-l\f1
List the reports which are valid for this database. Only those reports
for which an admin script \f5ad\f2rpt\f1ctl.sh\f1 exists and is
executable will be shown. If
\f3-T\f1 is present only reports of that type will be listed. If \f3-x\f1
is present the admin script, if it exists, will be considered to be 
executable irrespective
of its permissions.
.TP
\f3\-e\f1
Print a summary of the Enabled services from the context file.
.TP
\f3\-n\f1
Print a summary of the roles of this node.
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
For \f3adstatus\f1 restrict actions to applications tier services.
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
For \f3adstatus\f1 restrict actions to database tier services.
.TP
\f3\-g \f2mode\f1
Use \f2mode\f1 as the graphics mode for titles when connected to a terminal.
Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 20
\f2bold\f1
Use bold.
.TP 20
\f2smso\f1|\f2so\f1|\f2standout\f1
Use standout.
.TP 20
\f2smul\f1|\f2ul\f1|\f2underline\f1
Use underline.
.TP 20
\f2off\f1
Turns graphics mode off.
.RE
.TP 
\f3\-p\f1
Use \f3ps\f1(1) in preference to the contents of a PID file (wherever
one exists) for determining running processes. Some
\f5ad\f2rpt\f1ctl.sh\f1 scripts use files for containing the process
IDs that it has started. Reports generally use this wherever
available. This option overrides this behaviour. Note also that with
this option \f3ps\f1 will be used to display processes rather than
.BR ptree (1).
.TP
\f3\-u\f1
Use UCB \f3ps\f1(1B) in preference to SystemV \f3ps\f1(1) for
displaying output. This option has an effect even when the \f3-p\f1
option is not used, that is, the command line output of \f3ptree\f1
will be replaced by that of \f3ps\f1(1B). This can be used to obtain
longer listings. Note that this is only for display, the process is
still searched for using \f3pgrep\f1(1) or \f3ps\f1(1).
.TP
\f3\-w \f2num\f1
Do not wrap screen output but trim to \f2num\f1 number columns.
.TP
\f3\-s \f2ORACLE_SID\f1
Oracle SID of the database upon which the command is
to act. If this option is not present \f3adstatus\f1 uses the current
value of \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 or (if not set) \f5TWO_TASK\f1. This variable is
really the "name" of the configuration.
.TP
\f3\-t \f2TWO_TASK\f1
Ordinarily in e-Business Suite configurations the
\f5ORACLE_SID\f1 and \f5TWO_TASK\f1 environment variables have the same value.
If this option is present \f3adstatus\f1 will use the supplied value of
\f5TWO_TASK\f1 rather than setting it the same as \f5ORACLE_SID\f1. This
may be useful when you have applications tiers that have been configured for
one \f5ORACLE_SID\f1 and "pointed" to another database of a different TNS
alias.
.TP
\f3\-r \f2rhost\f1
Run \f3adstatus\f1 on remote host \f2rhost\f1. Note
that \f3-s\f1 must be supplied if this option is used. The current user
must also be equivalenced on \f2rhost\f1. See
.BR hosts.equiv (4).
.TP
\f3\-T \f2type\f1
The type of report to run. The default type is
\f5ps\f1. \f3adps\f1 is a link to \f3adstatus -T ps\f1, \f3adtns\f1
is a link to \f3adstatus -T tns\f1.
.TP
\f2rpt\f1 ...  The report(s) to run. The reports must be named as those
that appear with the \f3-l\f1 option. If no reports are specified all
applicable reports are run.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Print the status of the concurrent managers:
.nf
.ft 5

	$ adps cm
.ft 1
.fi
.P
Return only the combined status code of the Apache, forms and reports servers:
.nf
.ft 5

	$ adstatus -q apc frm rep
.ft 1
.fi
.P
Print a list of reports available under the \f3ps\f1 type for the database
\f5FOO\f1.
.nf
.ft 5

	$ adstatus -s FOO -T ps -l
             aln - Applications Listener (FNDFS, FNDSM)
              cm - Concurrent Manager
             rep - Reports Servers
             dln - Database TNS Listener
.ft 1
.fi
.P
Print the status of the CCT servers for the database \f5BAR\f1, using
.BR ps (1B)
for the command listing.
.nf
.ft 5

	adstatus -s BAR -u cct
.ft 1
.fi
.P
Print a summary of this node for the database \f5FOO\f1,
.nf
.ft 5

	$ adstatus -s FOO -u cct
	Node ukgtjd39/ukgtgd39
	Database             : YES
	Concurrent Processing: YES
	Administrative Node  : YES
	Web Server           : NO
	Forms Server         : NO

.ft 1
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
.P
Should a report \f2rpt\f1 (of type \f3ps\f1) produce no output -
assuming that no such processes exist, then its return code will be 1.
The return code of \f3adstatus\f1 is the sum of all such reports. Note
that this value may vary if \f3-p\f1 is used since a potentially
different method is used to determine processes.
.SS Expect File
.P
The return value of \f3adstatus\f1 can be influenced by setting a value
in an "expect" file for the report. This value can be a simple value or a
range. Simple arithmetic tests are permitted:
.nf
.ft 5
	
	>  \f2num\f1\f5  greater than \f2num\f1\f5
	>= \f2num\f1\f5  greater than or equal to \f2num\f1\f5
	!= \f2num\f1\f5  not equal to \f2num\f1\f5
	== \f2num\f1\f5  equal to \f2num\f1\f5
	<  \f2num\f1\f5  less than \f2num\f1\f5
	<= \f2num\f1\f5  less than or equal to \f2num\f1\f5

.ft 1
.fi
.P
The number of processes found by \f3adstatus\f1 must match this expression,
otherwise the return value of the report is 1.
.P
The \f5expect\f1 file is only used where the report type is \f3ps\f1 (or when
\f3adstatus\f1 has been invoked as \f3adps\f1.)
.P
At present only one such test is permitted. If no \f5expect\f1 file exists for the
report the comparison is implicitly \f5>=1\f1.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/lib/rpt/\f2type\f1\f5/\f2rpt\f1\f5/prog\f1
report program for report \f2rpt\f1\f5
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/lib/rpt/\f2type\f1\f5/\f2rpt\f1\f5/comment\f1
comment for above 
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/lib/rpt/ps/\f2rpt\f1\f5/expect\f1
expect file for \f3ps\f1 reports
.TP 30
\f5$COMMON_TOP/admin/scripts/ad\f2rpt\f1\f5ctl.sh\f1
admin script (same name as report)
.TP 30
\f5$DB_TOP/\f2version\f1\f5/appsutil/scripts/ad\f2rpt\f1\f5ctl.sh\f1
admin script (same name as report)
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/admin/\f2ORACLE_SID\f5_\f2node\f5.xml\f1
XML "context" configuration file
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pgrep (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR ps (1B),
.BR ptree (1)
.SH NOTES
.P
Extra reports can be added by placing them in the relevant location in
the reports directory. For example, a completely new class of report
can be added in \f5BASEDIR/lib/rpt/\f2type\f1. Each individual
report is created as a subdirectory \f2rpt\f1, which will be the name of the
report, together with a \f5prog\f1 file which will run the report
and a \f5comment\f1 file which will display the title of the report. \f2rpt\f1
must have a corresponding admin script \f5ad\f2rpt\f1\f5ctl.sh\f1 with either
path as specified in FILES.
.P
\f3ps\f1(1) is always used to search for processes when \f5-p\f1 is specified
or this is the default for the report. This is irrespective of whether
BSD ps has been specified with \f5-u\f1 which is only used to display 
output.
