.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH adstart 1M "12 Aug 1998"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
adstart, adstop \- start/stop E-Business applications services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Startup
\f3adstart\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-v\f1] [\f3-c\f1] [\f2s_systemname\f1 ...]
.SS Shutdown
\f3adstop\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-v\f1] [\f3-c\f1] [\f2s_systemname\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "adstop" "" "\fLadstart\fP \(em print ORACLE_HOME"
.P
Issuing this command will start/stop all applications services for the 
E-Business suite specified \f2s_systemname\f1.
.P
Alternatively, if no \f2s_systemname\f1 is specified, then the 
\f5oratab\f1 file is examined for 
E-Business Suite instances listed by their the server or tools ORACLE_HOME.
The database appearing in the oratab must be the server or tools ORACLE_HOME.
The Applications technology stack 
is assumed to reside on the same system. If an APPL_TOP cannot be found for
the database in question no services will be attempted to be started or
stopped.
.P
\f3adstart/adstop\f1 simply locates the appropriate control script,
\f5adstrtal.sh\f1 and \f5adstpall.sh\f1 to start or stop services respectively,
and passes the applications username and password - which are obtained from
.BR adpasswd (1).
Alternatively the operator username and password can be supplied - which are
obtained from
.BR adcpusr (1).
.P
If no username and password is obtained by either of these methods then
non-blocking reads on standard input of first the (apps or operator)
username and then the password are made. This username and password are
then supplied to the control script. No prompting is made for the
username and password.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-n\f1
Do not execute the actions just print a list of that which
would have been run. When this option is present,
.BR adsvcctl (1M)
is also run to display which services are enabled.
.TP
\f3-c\f1
Use the operator username and password instead of the apps username and
password. This can be initially set up with 
.BR adcpusr (1).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.TP 45
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/adstop.sh\f1
Shutdown action
.TP 45
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/adstart.sh\f1
Startup action
.TP 45
\f5$COMMON_TOP/admin/CONTEXT_NAME/adstrtal.sh\f1
.TP 45
\f5$COMMON_TOP/admin/CONTEXT_NAME/adstpall.sh\f1
Scripts - 11i
.TP 45
\f5$INST_TOP/admin/scripts/adstrtal.sh\f1
.TP 45
\f5$INST_TOP/admin/scripts/adstpall.sh\f1
Scripts - R12
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adcpusr (1),
.BR adpasswd (1),
.BR adsvcctl (1M),
.BR nbread (1),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH NOTES
This command is for local services only.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
\f5$ \f7adstart -c -n DEV
The following Services are enabled:
  Oracle Apache Server DEV_sunhost                   adapcctl.sh
  OracleTNSListener80APPS_DEV_sunhost                adalnctl.sh
  OracleConcMgrDEV_sunhost                           adcmctl.sh
  OracleFormsServer-Forms60DEV_sunhost               adfrmctl.sh
  Oracle Reports Server [Rep60_DEV_sunhost]          adrepctl.sh
  Oracle Metrics Client DEV_sunhost                  adfmcctl.sh
  Oracle Metrics Server DEV_sunhost                  adfmsctl.sh
/u03/inst/apps/DEV_sunhost/admin/scripts/adstrtal.sh CONCOPER/1392!74fc?7213
.fi
.P
Display the command which stops the services for DEV supplying the 
username and password:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7{ echo scott; echo tiger; } | adstop -n DEV\f5
  Oracle Apache Server DEV_sunhost                   adapcctl.sh
  OracleTNSListener80APPS_DEV_sunhost                adalnctl.sh
  OracleConcMgrDEV_sunhost                           adcmctl.sh
  OracleFormsServer-Forms60DEV_sunhost               adfrmctl.sh
  Oracle Reports Server [Rep60_DEV_sunhost]          adrepctl.sh
  Oracle Metrics Client DEV_sunhost                  adfmcctl.sh
  Oracle Metrics Server DEV_sunhost                  adfmsctl.sh
/u03/inst/apps/DEV_sunhost/admin/scripts/adstrtal.sh scott/tiger
.fi
