.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH cmmaintpkg 1M "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
cmmaintpkg \- enable/disable maintenance mode for SGeRAC Toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3cmmaintpkg\f1 [\f3-v\f1] [\f3-e\f1|\f3-d\f1] [\f3-n \f2node_name\f1]... \f2package_name\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "cmmaintpkg"
.P
\f3cmmaintpkg\f1 enables or disables the maintenance mode of the Serviceguard
Extensions for Real Applications Clusters (SGeRAC) Toolkit. Without either
the \f3-e\f1 or \f3-d\f1 option only the current status is displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-e\f1
Enable maintenance mode.
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Disable maintenance mode.
.TP
\f3\-n \f2node_name\f1
Acts only on a specific node.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1
Be more verbose with messages. Multiple occurrences of this option increase
the verbosity, for example, \f3-vv\f1, \f3-vvv\f1 etc.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display the status for the package racp-\f2sid\f1 (associated with database
SID):
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7cmmaintpkg racp-\f2sid\f5
.fi
.P
Enable maintenance mode for racp-\f2sid\f1 on nodes \f2node1\f1 and \f2node2\f1:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7cmmaintpkg -e -n \f2node1\f1\f7 -n \f2node2\f5 racp-\f2sid\f5
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5/etc/cmcluster/crsp-slvm/oc.debug\f1
Maintenance mode flag for Clusterware.
.TP 30
\f5/etc/cmcluster/racp-\f2sid\f1/rac.debug\f1
Maintenance mode flag for database \f2sid\f1.
.SH NOTES
.P
Only the superuser can run this command or 
users who have been granted the provision of Role Based Access control for 
non-superuser execution of the \f3cmmaintpkg\f1 command to set maintenance mode.
.P
For example, suppose that the user \f2oracrs\f1 is the notional owner of the
Oracle Clusterware installation and has been granted the appropriate
role based access to execute the \f3cmmaintpkg\f1 command. Then the command can
be executed with the following:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7privrun /usr/contrib/lib/cmmaintpkg \f5
.fi
.P
In addition the invoking user must have \f2PACKAGE_ADMIN\f1 status for the
package in question.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cmmakepkg (1),
.BR rbac (5)
.TP 30
\f5/opt/cmcluster/SGeRAC/toolkit/README\f1
Toolkit documentation.
