.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH cmvgpkg 1M "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
cmvgpkg \- display/activate volume groups for SGeRAC Toolkit package
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3cmvgpkg\f1 [\f3-v\f1] [\f3-a\f1[\f3-s\f1]|\f3-d\f1[\f3-s\f1]] [\f3-n \f2node_name\f1]... \f2package_name\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "cmvgpkg"
.P
\f3cmvgpkg\f1 displays the volume groups associated with packages configured
using the Serviceguard
Extensions for Real Applications Clusters (SGeRAC) Toolkit. With 
the \f3-a\f1 option the volumes will be activated, and with the \f3-d\f1
option the volumes will be deactivated.
.P
The list of volumes is extracted from those configured in the package's
control script.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
Activate volumes. The command to use for volume activation is that configured
as the "VGCHANGE" variable in the control script (defined below).
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Deactivate volumes. The command to use for volume deactivation is
\f3vgchange -n\f1.
.TP
\f3\-s\f1
Produce a script to activate the volume groups on standard output which can be
subsequently executed by the root user. This implies the current node only.
If \f3-n\f1 is used when \f3-s\f1 is present then the only \f2node_name\f1
that can be specified is the current hostname.
.TP
\f3\-n \f2node_name\f1
Acts only on a specific node.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1
Be more verbose with messages. Multiple occurrences of this option increase
the verbosity, for example, \f3-vv\f1, \f3-vvv\f1 etc.
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.P
Previous versions of this command acted on the local node only. To preserve
this behaviour set the environmental variable \f3CMVGPKG_LOCAL_ONLY\f1=1.
Note also that in keeping consistency with the old form of \f3cmvgpkg\f1, 
specifying \f3-n\f1 when \f3CMVGPKG_LOCAL_ONLY\f1 is true generates a
syntax error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display the status for the volume groups for the package racp-\f2sid\f1
(associated with database SID):
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7cmvgpkg racp-\f2sid\f5
.ft 1
.ft 5
/dev/vg_data_perf         available, shared, server read/write
/dev/vg_logs_123A_1_perf  available, shared, server read/write
/dev/vg_logs_123B_1_perf  available, shared, server read/write
/dev/vg_logs_456A_2_perf  available, shared, server read/write
/dev/vg_logs_456C_2_perf  available, shared, server read/write
.fi
.P
Activate volume groups for racp-\f2sid\f1 on node \f2node1\f1:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7cmvgpkg -n \f2node1\f1\f7 -a racp-\f2sid\f5
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5/etc/cmcluster/racp-\f2sid\f5/rac-\f2sid\f5.ctl\f1
Control script for package racp-\f2sid\f1.
.SH NOTES
.P
Only the superuser can run this command or 
users who have been granted the provision of Role Based Access control for 
non-superuser execution of the \f3cmvgpkg\f1 command.
.P
For example, suppose that the user \f2oracle\f1 is the notional owner of an
Oracle database installation configured as a SGeRAC Toolkit package
and has been granted the appropriate
role based access to execute the \f3cmvgpkg\f1 command. Then the command can
be executed with the following:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7privrun /usr/contrib/lib/cmvgpkg \f5
.fi
.P
In addition the invoking user must have \f2PACKAGE_ADMIN\f1 status for the
package in question.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cmmakepkg (1),
.BR vgchange (1M),
.BR rbac (5)
.TP 30
\f5/opt/cmcluster/SGeRAC/toolkit/README\f1
Toolkit documentation.
