.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH ctx 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
ctx \- locate e-Business Suite "context" file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ctx\f1
[\f3-a\f1[\f3-r\f1|\f3-p\f1]|\f3-d\f1|\f3-i\f1] [{\f3-A\f1|\f3-I\f1|\f3-D\f1} \f2dir\f1]... [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-f\f1] [\f3-x\f1] [\f3-v\f2n\f1] [\f3-h\f2host\f1]... [\f3-s \f2s_systemname\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ctx"
.P
\f3ctx\f1 locates the context files associated with the Oracle
Applications instance named \f2s_systemname\f1. It does this by
checking for likely names of the file and by examing the XML 
entries themselves.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
Print only the applications tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.)
.RS
.TP
\f3\-r\f1
Print only the (run) applications tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.) R12.2+ only.
This is the default if not specified.
.TP
\f3\-p\f1
Print only the (patch) applications tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.) R12.2+ only.
.RE
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Print only the database tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.)
.TP
\f3\-i\f1
Print information about the node.
.TP
\f3\-A \f2dir\f1
Constrain the search for APPCTX to begin in the APPL_TOP specified for
\f2dir\f1.
.TP
\f3\-I \f2dir\f1
Constrain the search for APPCTX to begin in the INST_TOP specified for
\f2dir\f1 (R12).
.TP
\f3\-D \f2dir\f1
Constrain the search for DBCTX to begin in the DB_TOP specified for
\f2dir\f1.
.TP
\f3\-n\f1
Do not print in "variable" format. That is the line is not preceded by a
variable assignment, "DBCTX=" for database context files, "APPCTX=" for
applications context files.
.TP
\f3\-f\f1
Display the full path to the context file, rather than just the context 
name.
.TP
\f3\-x\f1
Display verbose output about the searches made for the context file.
Useful for debugging.
.TP
\f3\-h \f2host\f1
Add \f2host\f1 to the list of hostnames used for generating the potential
context file name in addition to the defaults. Can occur multiple times.
Possibly useful for finding the context file for a source system copied to
another server for cloning.
.TP
\f3\-v \f2n\f1
When searching for the database context file constrain the version of the
database searched for to be no greater
than \f2n\f1, where \f2n\f1 is an integer.
.TP
\f3\-s \f2s_systemname\f1
Specify the name of the E-Business system. Otherwise taken from the environment.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display the context names:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7ctx -s FOO\f5
APPCTX=FOO_pluto
DBCTX=FOO1_venus
.fi
.P
Display the path to the context files:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7ctx -f -s FOO\f5
APPCTX=/u93/app/FOO/apps/admin/FOO_pluto.xml
DBCTX=/u93/app/FOO/oracle/11.1.0/appsutil/FOO1_venus.xml
.fi
.P
The output can be used to set the variables, for example:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7eval `ctx -f -s FOO`\f5
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/admin/*.xml\f1
Applications XML context file (11i)
.TP 30
\f5$INST_TOP/appl/admin/*.xml\f1
Applications XML context file (R12)
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/appsutil/*.xml\f1
Database XML context file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adstatus (1)
