.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH dbacmd 1M "12 Aug 1998"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
dbacmd \- return correct command to start/stop oracle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3dbacmd\f1 [\f3-nd\f1] \f3shutdown\f1 [\f3immediate\f1|\f3abort\f1|\f3normal\f1|\f3transactional\f1 [\f3local\f1]]
.\"\f3dbacmd\f1 [\f3-nd\f1] \f3startup\f1 [\f3force\f1] [\f3restrict\f1] [\f3pfile=\f2file\f1] [\f3quiet\f1] [\f3mount\f1|\f3open\f1 [\f3read \f1{\f3only\f1|\f3write\f1}]|\f3nomount\f1]
\f3dbacmd\f1 [\f3-nd\f1] \f3startup\f1 \f2options\f1 [\f3mount\f1|\f3open\f1 [\f3read \f1{\f3only\f1|\f3write\f1}]|\f3nomount\f1]

  \f2options\f1 = [\f3force\f1] [\f3restrict\f1] [\f3pfile=\f2file\f1] [\f3quiet\f1] 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dbacmd" "" "\fLdbacmd\fP \(em print ORACLE_HOME"
.P
Running \f3dbacmd\f1 will execute the appropriate program used to start/stop
an Oracle database depending on its version.
.P
The command actually executed could be one of:
.TP 10
\f7sqldba\f1
Used in 5 and 6.
.TP 10
\f7svrmgrl\f1
Introduced in 7. Available in 8. Dropped in 9.
.TP 10
\f7sqlplus\f1
Used in 8.1 (in \f2preference\f1 to \f5svrmgrl\f1) and above.
.P
The command used further depends on the version of the database and
the \f2rules\f1 in force.
.P
The version of the database is extracted by running whichever of these
three commands is first found. The version for comparison purposes will
be restricted to the first three numbers of the actual version
obtained. In Dewey decimal notation this is referred to the Release,
the Level and the Branch: \f2R\f1.\f2L\f1.\f2B\f1.
.SS Rules
The file \f5/etc/opt/oracle/dbacmds\f1 contains a list of rules that
contain which commands to run against which version. The R.L.B
notation is understood in the matching process. For example, if this
file contains
.nf
.f5

      8.0   A
      8.1   B
      8.1.7 C
      9     D
.f1
.fi
.P
\f2A\f1 will be run for all versions 8.0.*, \f2C\f1 for all versions 8.1.7
and \f2B\f1 for all other versions 8.1.*; and \f2D\f1 for all versions 9.*
.SS Username
Earlier versions of Oracle use the username "internal" as the name of the 
OS authorised user. From version 8.1 it is recommended that the 
new authentication mechanism be used and "/ as sysdba" be the OS authenticated
user. If \f3dbacmd\f1 determines that the database version is 8.1 or greater
the latter connection is used. This is the only mechanism currently supported
for specifying which user to use.
.SS Root Invocation
The user attempting to start or stop the oracle server processes (other
than the owner of the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1) must be a
member of the DBA group defined for this \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1. The DBA
group is defined in \f5$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/lib/config.s\f1 as mentioned
below. Commonly this group is "dba".
.RS 5
.P
\f3dbacmd\f1 makes no provision to
check that the invoking user is a member of this group (for the database
currently being started or stopped.) As with starting or stopping the database
"manually" it is the responsibility of the user to determine that he is in
this group.
.RE
.P
The exception to this is that 
\f5root\f1 cannot be a member of this group and start and stop the database
server. To allow \f5root\f1 to start and stop databases \f3dbacmd\f1 performs
a
.BR setuid (2)
to the owner of this \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 before executing the startup/shutdown
actions.
.P
This behaviour allows
.BR dbstart (1M)
and
.BR dbshut(1M)
to be used in the system's "rc" scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-n\f1
Do not execute the actions just print a list of that which
would have been run.
.TP
\f3-d\f1
Debug mode. Print to stderr of detailed actions.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5/etc/opt/oracle/dbacmds\f1
Rules file
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/lib/config.s\f1
symbol \f5ss_dba_grp\f1 defines dba group name for this \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbid (1),
.BR dbvers (1),
.BR dbstart (1M),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS An Applications 11i/12 Database
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7dbacmd -n startup\f5
sh /DB_03/oracle/dbadb/8.1.7.4/appsutil/scripts/DBA_hfx8/addbctl.sh start\f1
.fi
.SS A More Typical Oracle Installation
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7dbacmd -n shutdown immediate\f5
/opt/oracle/product/8.1.7.4/bin/svrmgrl  <<-!
	connect internal
	shutdown immediate
!
.fi
.RE
.SS Invoked by Root
.nf
.sp
\f5# \f7dbacmd -n shutdown immediate\f5
su oracle -c "/opt/oracle/product/9.2.0/bin/sqlplus  <<-!
	connect / as sysdba
	shutdown immediate
!"
.fi
.SH NOTES
This command is for local database instances only. It is not normally intended
to be invoked directly.
.P
Since the oracle kernel does not use paths to search for dynamic libraries any 
environment variables, such as \f3LD_LIBRARY_PATH\f1, used for searches are
unset.
