.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.\".fam H
.fp 1 PR
.fp 2 HI
.fp 3 PB
.fp 4 HBI
.fp 5 CR
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.TH dbstart 1M "12 Aug 1998"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
dbstart, dbshut \- start/stop database instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Startup
.nf
\f3dbstart\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-i\f1] \f2open_opts\f1 \f2mode_opts\f1 [\f3-e\f1] [\f2SID\f1...]

  \f2open_opts\f1 = [-o \f3force\f1] [-o \f3restrict\f1] [-o \f3pfile\f1=\f2file\f1] [-o \f3quiet\f1]
  \f2mode_opts\f1 = [-m \f3mount\f1|\f3open \f1[\f3read\f1 {\f3only\f1|\f3write\f1}]|\f3nomount\f1]
.fi
.SS Shutdown
.nf
\f3dbshut\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-i\f1] \f2mode_opts\f1 [\f3-e\f1] [\f2SID\f1...]

  \f2mode_opts\f1 = [\f3-m immediate\f1|\f3abort\f1|\f3normal\f1|\f3transactional\f1 [\f3local\f1]]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dbshut" "" "\fLdbstart\fP \(em print ORACLE_HOME"
.P
Issuing this command will start/stop all instances for databases listed
in \f5oratab\f1. Refer to 
.BR oratab (4)
for a description of the action these programs take.
.P
Issuing either of these commands will start/stop all services for
databases listed in \f5oratab\f1, entries must have the startup flag
set to "Y" for them to be considered.
.P
Supplying a list of database \f2SID\f1s on the command line results in 
only the services for the specified databases being started/stopped - an entry
must exist in the \f5oratab\f1 for each specified database, however, the value
of its startup flag is ignored. If the user is not root in this context,
then the user invoking \f3dbstart\f1/\f3dbshut\f1 must be a member of the
dba group for that database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-n\f1
Do not execute the actions just print a list of that which
would have been run.
.TP
\f3-i\f1
HP-UX only. Ignore the fact that the database may be under the control of
an SGeRAC Toolkit package and execute the actions that would otherwise
be performed.
.TP
\f3-m immediate\f1|\f3abort\f1|\f3normal\f1|\f3transactional\f1 [\f3local\f1]
Specify the shutdown mode.
.TP
\f3-m \f3mount\f1|\f3open \f1[\f3read\f1 {\f3only\f1|\f3write\f1}]|\f3nomount\f1
Specify the startup mode.
.TP
\f3-o \f2option\f1...
Specify options for startup. The order is not significant since \f3dbstart\f1
will sort them.
.TP
\f3-e\f1
Use 
.BR oraenv (1)
to set the environment.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/lib/config.s\f1
ss_dba_grp symbol defines dba group name for this ORACLE_HOME
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/dbshut.sh\f1
Shutdown action
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/dbstart.sh\f1
Startup action
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbacmd (1M),
.BR oraenv (1),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH NOTES
This command is for local database instances only.
