.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
 fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH dos2ux 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
dos2ux, ux2dos \- convert ASCII file format between UNIX and DOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3dos2ux\f1 \f2file\f1...
.sp
\f3ux2dos\f1 \f2file\f1...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dos2ux"
.P
\f3dos2ux\f1 and \f3ux2dos\f1 read each specified \f2file\f1 in sequence and
write it to standard output, converting to UNIX format or to DOS format,
respectively. Each \f2file\f1 can be in either DOS format or UNIX format for
either command.
.P
If no input file is given or if a \f2file\f1 is specified as \f3-\f1,
\f3dos2ux\f1 and \f3ux2dos\f1 read from standard input. Standard input can be
combined with other files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Print \f2myfile\f1 on the display:
.nf
.sp
	\f3dos2ux\f1 \f2myfile\f1
.fi
.P
Convert \f2file1\f1 and \f2file2\f1 to DOS format; then concatenate them
together placing them in \f2file3\f1:
.nf
.sp
	\f3ux2dos\f1 \f2file1\f1 \f2file2\f1 > \f2file3\f1
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
\f3dos2ux\f1 exits with one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
\f30\f1
Successful.
.TP
\f32\f1
Failure. The only possible failure is the inability to open a specified file,
in which case the ocmmand prints a warning.
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.P
Commands resembling:
.nf
.sp
	\f5dos2ux\f1 \f2file1\f1 \f2file2\f1 \f5> \f2file1\f1 
.fi
.P
Overwrite the contents of \f2file1\f1 before the concatenation begins, causing
a loss of the the contents of \f2file1\f1.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
