.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH getappspass 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
getappspass \- retrieve APPS user password
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3getappspass\f1
[\f3-f\f1[\f3-h \f2oracle_home\f1|\f3-o\f1]] \f3-s \f2sid\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "getappspass"
.P
\f3getappspass\f1 retrieves the password for the e-Business Suite APPS
user given that the invoking user has appropriate privileges (i.e. OS
authenticated as sysdba).
.P
For version 11.5.x the APPS password can be retrieved from a well known file
in the IAS_ORACLE_HOME stack. For release 12.1.x, it is necessary to connect
to the database to decrypt the APPS password.
.P
Connection credentials are retrieved from the context file (if it exists).
In this case a common error (possibly as a result of cloning)
is that the Applications Tier context file has the
incorrect value for the remote database OS user specified as \f5s_dbuser\f1.
This will result in the message:
.nf
.sp
.ft 5
  getappspass: current user not owner of database tier (xxxxxxx)
.sp
.fi
.P
It will be necessary to correct the value in the context file in order to
proceed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-f\f1
If the e-Business Suite is 11.5.?, force a connection to the database to
retrieve the password rather than inspect well-known configuration files.
Useful, for example in the event that the password has changed
and AutoConfig has yet to be run.
.TP
\f3\-h \f2oracle_home\f1
If forcing a connection to a database (with \f3-f\f1) but a context file
cannot be found, the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 can be supplied.
.TP
\f3\-o\f1
As \f3\-h\f1, but take \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 from oratab.
.TP
\f3\-s \f2sid\f1
Specify the name of the eBusiness system.
If this is a RAC instance and a context file cannot be found, it may be
necessary to specify the actual SID rather than the value for \f5s_dbGlnam\f1, 
\f5s_systemname\f1, \f5s_dbService\f1 used in the context file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1)
.SH NOTES
ssh authentication must have been set up between the current host and the
database host defined as \f5s_dbhost\f1 in the context file.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run getappspass for ENZO
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7getappspass -s ENZO\f5
hello
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5$APPL_TOP/admin/*.xml\f1
Applications XML context file
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/appsutil/*.xml\f1
Database XML context file
