.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 CO
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.nr X
.TH getctx 1 "09 Nov 2009" ""
.SH NAME
getctx \- locate context file for e-Business node
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3getctx\f1
[\f3-a\f1[\f3-r\f1|\f3-p\f1]|\f3-d\f1[\f3-v\f2n\f1]] \f3-f \f2context_file\f1 | \f3-s \f2s_systemname\f1 [\f3-D \f2dir\f1] [\f3-A \f2dir\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "getctx"
.P
\f3getctx\f1 locates a context file for either a database or application
server node associated with \f2s_systemname\f1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
Context file located will be that associated with the applications tier.
It will be validated that the header contains "adxmlctx". This is the 
default should neither \f3-a\f1 or \f3-d\f1 be specified.
.RS
.TP
\f3\-r\f1
Print only the (run) applications tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.) R12.2+ only.
This is the default if not specified.
.TP
\f3\-p\f1
Print only the (patch) applications tier context if found (otherwise exit with error.) R12.2+ only.
.RE
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Context file located will be that associated with the database tier. It will
be validated that the header contains "adxdbctx".
.TP
\f3\-v \f2n\f1
Constrain the database to be version \f2n\f1 when searching for a database
context file.
.TP
\f3\-f \f2path to context file\f1
Use \f2path to context file\f1 as the context file. This can be used to
validate the presence and type of context file.
.TP
\f3\-s \f2s_systemname\f1
Use \f2s_systemname\f1 as the name of the installation for which to search for context
files 
.TP
\f3\-D \f2dir\f1
Constrain the search for DBCTX to begin in the DB_TOP specified for
\f2dir\f1.
.TP
\f3\-A \f2dir\f1
Constrain the search for APPCTX to begin in the APPL_TOP specified for
\f2dir\f1.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Find Applications Tier Context File
.P
An example of invocation might be:
.P
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7getctx -s ENZO\f5
/u25/app/ENZO/apps/admin/ENZO_tigger.xml
.fi
.SS Find the Database Tier Context File
.P
With the \f3-d\f1 option, we might get
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7getctx -d -s ENZO\f5
/u25/app/ENZO/oracle/11.1.0/appsutil/ENZO2_tigger.xml
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctx (1)
