.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH getprb 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
getprb \- extract 'problem's from ADR alert
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3getprb\f1
\f3-s \f2sid\f1 [\f3-h \f2oracle_home\f1|\f3-o\f1] [-d \f2datetime\f1] [-e \f2n\f1] [-a \f2n\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "getprb"
.P
\f3getprb\f1 extracts reported problems from the ADR alert log for the
given database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
\f3\-h\f1 \f2oracle_home\f1
Set the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 directly.
.TP 15
\f3\-s \f2sid\f1
Use \f2sid\f1 to determine the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1.
.TP 15
\f3\-o\f1
Get the \f5ORACLE_HOME\f1 from oratab rather than the database context file.
.TP 15
\f3\-d \f2datetime\f1
Specify the date and time in the 
.BR date (1)
format "%Y-%m-%d %R".
.TP 15
\f3\-e \f2n\f1
Set the error code for which to search. The default is 600.
.TP 15
\f3\-a \f2n\f1
Specify any arguments to the error code. For example, \f3-e \f5600\f1 \f3-a \f56856\f1 searches for ORA 600 with an argument of 6856. This option can be 
specified multiply - the resulting search is cumulative.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\f3getprb\f1 exits with one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
\f32\f1
Syntax error.
.TP
\f31\f1
No problems exist.
.TP
\f30\f1
Problems found.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Display all ORA 600 errors since 15 May 2011:
.nf
.sp
\f5$ \f7getprb -s FOO -d '2011-05-15 00:00'\f5
PROBLEM_ID           PROBLEM_KEY
LAST_INCIDENT        LASTINC_TIME
--------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------
-------------------- ----------------------------------------
5                    ORA 600 [kcidr_io_check_common_6]
23801890             2011-05-16 15:30:13.088725 +01:00
.fi
.SS Usage in Shell Scripts
.P
\f3getprb\f1 can be incorporated in tests to display errs in a certain
time frame. For example, if any ORA 600, 6856 errors since last night:
.nf
.sp
.ft 7
.RS
if getprb -d `date "+%y-%m-%d 00:00"` -a 6856
then
	echo Errors were found in the alert log
else
	echo No errors found
fi
.RE
.ft 1
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctx (1)
