.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH lsnrstart 1M "12 Aug 1998"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
lsnrstart, lsnrstop \- start/stop TNS services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Startup
\f3lsnrstart\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-i\f1] [\f3-e\f1] [\f2SID\f1 ...]
.SS Shutdown
\f3lsnrstop\f1 [\f3-n\f1] [\f3-i\f1] [\f3-e\f1] [\f2SID\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "lsnrstop" "" "\fLlsnrstart\fP \(em print ORACLE_HOME"
.P
Issuing this command will start/stop all TNS services for databases listed
in \f5oratab\f1. Refer to 
.BR oratab (4)
for a description of the action these programs take.
.P
Issuing either of these commands will start/stop all TNS services for
databases listed in \f5oratab\f1, entries must have the startup flag
set to "Y" for them to be considered.
.P
Supplying a list of database \f2SID\f1s on the command line results in 
only the services for the specified databases being started/stopped - an entry
must exist in the \f5oratab\f1 for each specified database, however, the value
of its startup flag is ignored. If the user is not root in this context,
then the user invoking \f3lsnrstart\f1/\f3lsnrstop\f1 must be a member of the
dba group for that database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-n\f1
Do not execute the actions just print a list of that which
would have been run.
.TP
\f3-i\f1
HP-UX only. If the listener is under the control of Clusterware under
an SGeRAC Toolkit package then ignore this and
attempt to start it directly (or with the e-Business Suite script if
applicable.)
.TP
\f3-e\f1
Use 
.BR oraenv (1)
to set the environment.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/rdbms/lib/config.s\f1
ss_dba_grp symbol defines dba group name for this ORACLE_HOME
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/lsnrstop.sh\f1
Shutdown action
.TP 30
\f5BASEDIR/share/lib/lsnrstart.sh\f1
Startup action
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oraenv (1),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH NOTES
This command is for local database instances only.
