.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 CO
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.nr X
.TH pgrep 1 "21 Apr 2007" ""
.SH NAME
pgrep, pkill \- search or kill processes based on process name and attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\f3pgrep\f1 [\f3-flvx\f1] [\f3-n\f1|\f3-o\f1] [\f3-d \f2dlim\f1] [\f3-g \f2pgrplist\f1] [\f3-G \f2grouplist\f1] [\f3-P \f2ppidlist\f1] [\f3-s \f2sidlist\f1] [\f3-S \f2statelist\f1] [\f3-t \f2termlist\f1] [\f3-u \f2userlist\f1] [\f3-U \f2ruserlist\f1] [\f2pattern\f1]
.HP
\f3pkill\f1 \f1[\f3-signal\f1] [\f3-fvx\f1] [\f3-n\f1|\f3-o\f1] [\f3-d \f2dlim\f1] [\f3-g \f2pgrplist\f1] [\f3-G \f2grouplist\f1] [\f3-P \f2ppidlist\f1] [\f3-s \f2sidlist\f1] [\f3-S \f2statelist\f1] [\f3-t \f2termlist\f1] [\f3-u \f2userlist\f1] [\f3-U \f2ruserlist\f1] [\f2pattern\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pgrep"
.P
\f3pgrep\f1 searches for processes having attributes matching the selection
criteria specified by its arguments.
The process ID numbers of the macthed processes are printed, separated by a delimiter, the default being the
newline.
Each atrribute option can take multiple values separated by a comma.
\f3pgrep\f1 will select those processes that match all the options specified.
If an attribute option has multiple values, then the process needs to match
one of the values.
.P
For example:
.RS
.sp
\f5pgrep -u root,daemon -G sys,daemon\f1
.RE
.P
matches processes having effective user ID (\f5root\f1 OR \f5daemon\f1) AND 
real group ID (\f5sys\f1 OR \f5daemon\f1).
.P
\f3pkill\f1 selects processes similar to \f3pgrep\f1, but instead of printing
the process ID numbers, it signals the matched processes.
The user can specify the signal to be sent to the matched process as the first argument
to \f3pkill\f1.
By default, \f7SIGTERM\f1 is assumed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-signal\f1
Specifies the signal to be sent to each matched process (\f3pkill\f1 only). 
If no signal is specified, \f7SIGTERM\f1 is sent by default.
The value of signal follows the same syntax as that of the \f3kill\f1 command; see
.BR kill (1).
This option, if specified, should be the first argument to \f3pkill\f1.
.TP
\f3-d \f2dlim\f1
Specifies the delimiter to be used while printing the matched entries
(\f3prgep\f1) only. 
The default delimiter is a newline.
.TP
\f3-f\f1
Perform pattern mnatching on the entire command line rather than the command
name.
.TP
\f3-G \f2grouplist\f1
Select processes whose real group ID numbers or group names are given in \f2grouplist\f1.
.TP
\f3-g \f2pgrplist\f1
Select processes whose process group ID numbers are given in \f2pgrplist\f1.
.TP
\f3-l \f1
Long listing (\f3prgep\f1) only.
Print the command name along with the PID,
If used with the \f3-f\f1 option, the command line argument is printed instead
of command name.
.TP
\f3-n \f1
Select the most recently created process matching the criteria.
This option is mutually exclusive with the \f3-o\f1 option.
.TP
\f3-n \f1
Select the oldest process matching the criteria.
This option is mutually exclusive with the \f3-n\f1 option.
.TP
\f3-P \f2ppidlist\f1
Select processes whose parents whose parent ID process numbers are given in \f2ppidlist\f1.
.TP
\f3-s \f2sidlist\f1
Select processes whose session ID numbers are given in \f2sidlist\f1.
.TP
\f3-S \f2statelist\f1
Select processes whose current state is given in the \f2statelist\f1. The
values for \f2statelist\f1 can be:
.RS
.nf
.sp
\f3O\f1	Nonexistent
\f3A\f1	Active
\f3I\f1	Idle
\f3T\f1	Stopped
\f3Z\f1	Canceled
\f3W\f1	Swapped
.ft
.RE
.TP
\f3-U \f2ruserlist\f1
Select processes whose real user ID numbers or login names are given in \f2ruserlist\f1. 
.TP
\f3-u \f2userlist\f1
Select processes whose effective user ID numbers or login names are given in \f2userlist\f1.
.TP
\f3-v\f1
Reverse selection. 
Select processes that do not meet the matching criteria.
.TP
\f3-x\f1
Perform an exact match of the pattern string.
.SS Operands
.TP
\f2pattern\f1
Expression (ERE) pattern to mtch against either the basename for full process
argument string.
.SH NOTES
This is an implementation for HP-UX 11.11/11.23 or AIX 7.2. HP-UX 11.31 has \f3pgrep\f1
natively.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR getprocs (2)
