.\" @(#)ps.1	1.3
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 CO
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.nr X
.TH ps 1 "21 Apr 2007" ""
.SH NAME
ps \- variation of ps(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ps\f1 [\f3-x\f1]
\f3-p \f2proclist\f1 \f3-o \f2format\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ps"
.P
This version of \f3ps\f1 requires the \f3-p\f1 and \f3-o\f1 options. Unlike
the standard 
.BR ps (1)
this \f3ps\f1 will list all processes in the order given in \f2proclist\f1
and print repeated processes if they should appear multiple times. The processes
will be printed in the order in which they occur in \f2proclist\f1.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-x\f1
Shows the command line in extended format.
.TP
\f3\-p \f2proclist\f1
Select processes whose process ID numbers are given in \f2proclist\f1.
.TP
\f3\-o \f2format\f1
format is a comma- or space-separated list of the columns to display, in
the order they should be displayed.  (Valid column names are listed
below.)  A column name can optionally be followed by an equals sign (=)
and a string to use as the heading for that column.  (Any commas or
spaces after the equals sign will be taken as a part of the column
heading; if more columns are desired, they must be specified with
additional \f3-o\f1 options.)  The width of the column will be the greater of
the width of the data to be displayed and the width of the column
heading.  If an empty column heading is specified for every heading, no
heading line will be printed.
.P
The list used as an argument to the -p option can be specified in one of two forms:
.IP \(bu
A list of identifiers separated from one another by a comma.
.IP \(bu
A list of identifiers enclosed in quotation marks (") and
separated from one another by a comma and/or one or more
spaces.
.SS Output Options
.RS
.TP 15
\f3addr\f1
The memory address of the process, if resident;
otherwise, the disk address.
.TP 15
\f3args\f1
The command line given when the process was
created.  This column should be the last one
specified, if it is desired.  Only a subset of the
command line is saved by the kernel; as much of
the command line will be displayed as is
available.  The output in this column may contain
spaces.  The default heading for this column is
COMMAND if -o is specified and CMD otherwise.
.TP 15
\f3cls\f1
Process scheduling class. This option prints the scheduling
classes as named by the
.BR pstat (2)
interfaces. For the scheduling classes as defined by 
.BR rtsched (1)
use the \f3sched\f1 column. 
.TP 15
\f3comm\f1
The command name.  The output in this column may
contain spaces.  The default heading for this
column is COMMAND if -o is specified and CMD
otherwise.
.TP 15
\f3cpu\f1
Processor utilization for scheduling.  The default
heading for this column is C.
.TP 15
\f3etime\f1
Elapsed time of the process.  The default heading
for this column is ELAPSED.
.TP 15
\f3flags\f1
Flags (octal and additive) associated with the
process:
.RS 20
.PD 0
.TP
\f3 0\f1
Swapped
.TP
\f3 1\f1
In core
.TP
\f3 2\f1
System process
.TP
\f3 4\f1
Locked in core (e.g., for physical I/O)
.TP
\f310\f1
Being traced by another process
.TP
\f320\f1
Another tracing flag
.RE
.PD
.TP 15
\f3intpri\f1
The priority of the process as it is stored internally by the kernel.
This column is provided for backward compatibility and its use is not
encouraged.
.TP 15
\f3gid\f1
The group ID number of the effective process owner.
.TP 15
\f3group\f1
The group name of the effective process owner.
.TP 15
\f3nice\f1
Nice value; used in priority computation (see nice(1)).  The default
heading for this column is NI.
.TP 15
\f3pcpu\f1
The percentage of CPU time used by this process during the last
scheduling interval.  The default heading for this column is %CPU.
.TP 15
\f3pgid\f1
The process group ID number of the process group to which this process
belongs.
.TP 15
\f3pid\f1
The process ID number of the process.
.TP 15
\f3ppid\f1
The process ID number of the parent process.
.TP 15
\f3pri\f1
The priority of the process.  The meaning of the value depends on the
process scheduling class; see cls, above, and
.BR rtsched (1).
.TP 15
\f3prmid\f1
The PRM process resource group ID number.
.TP 15
\f3prmgrp\f1
The PRM process resource group name.
.TP 15
\f3rgid\f1
The group ID number of the real process owner.
.TP 15
\f3rgroup\f1
The group name of the real process owner.
.TP 15
\f3ruid\f1
The user ID number of the real process owner.
.TP 15
\f3pset\f1
The processor set ID on which this process is
running.
.TP 15
\f3ruser\f1
The login name of the real process owner.
.TP 15
\f3sched \f1
The scheduling class as defined by 
.BR rtsched (1).
.TP 15
\f3sid \f1
The session ID number of the session to which this process belongs.
.TP 15
\f3state\f1
The state of the process:
.RS 20
.PD 0
.TP
\f30\f1
Nonexistent
.TP
\f3S\f1
Sleeping
.TP
\f3W\f1
Waiting
.TP
\f3R\f1
Running
.TP
\f3I\f1
Intermediate
.TP
\f3Z\f1
Terminated
.TP
\f3T\f1
Stopped
.TP
\f3X\f1
Growing
.RE
.PD
The default heading for this column is S.
.TP 15
\f3stime\f1
Starting time of the process.  If the elapsed time is greater than 24
hours, the starting date is displayed instead.
.TP 15
\f3sz\f1
The size in physical pages of the core image of the process,
including text, data, and stack space.  Physical page size is defined by
_SC_PAGE_SIZE in the header file <unistd.h> (see sysconf(2) and
unistd(5)).
.TP 15
\f3time\f1
The cumulative execution time for the process.
\f3.TP 15\f1
\f3tty\f1
The controlling terminal for the process.  The default heading for
this column is TT if -o is is specified and TTY otherwise.
.TP 15
\f3uid\f1
The user ID number of the effective process owner.
.TP 15
\f3user\f1
The login name of the effective process owner.
.TP 15
\f3vsz\f1
The total size of the core image of the process in virtual memory, in kilobytes,
including text, data, and stack space.
.TP 15
\f3wchan\f1
The event for which the process is waiting or
sleeping; if there is none, a hyphen (-) is
displayed.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony(santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR rtsched (1),
.BR pstat (2),
.BR rtsched (2)
