.\" @(#)pset.1	1.3
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 CO
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.nr X
.TH pset 1 "21 Apr 2007" ""
.SH NAME
pset \- generate string for PS1 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pset\f1 [\f3-s\f1|\f3-t\f1] [\f3-h\f1] [\f3-T\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pset"
.P
\f3pset\f1 generates a string suitable for setting PS1 to include a variety of
information and to optionally set the window title bar.
.P
Typical usage is:
.DS
.nf
.sp
  \f5PS1=`pset -sh -T`\f1
.sp
.ft
.DE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-s\f1
Include the value of the environment variable \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 in the prompt (if any).
.TP
\f3-t\f1
Include the value of the environment variable \f2TWO_TASK\f1 in the prompt (if any).
.TP
\f3-h\f1
Include the hostname in the prompt.
.TP
\f3-T\f1
Set the title of the terminal window.
.SS Prompt
.P
Example prompts are shown below:
.P
.TS
lB | lB | lB
l | l | l.
Option	PS1	Title
_	_	_
 	\f2username\f3$\f1	\f2username\f1:$PWD\f1
-h	\f2username\f3@\f2hostname$\f1	\f2username@hostname\f1:$PWD\f1
-h -s	\f2username\f3@\f2hostname[SID]$\f1	\f2username@hostname\f1:$PWD\f1
.TE
.SS Colours
.P
For the \f3-s\f1 and \f3-t\f1 options, the variables \f2SG_ORACLE_SID\f1 and
\f2SG_TWO_TASK\f1 can be set to be the colour of the ORACLE_SID and TWO_TASK
variables respectively as they
appear in the PS1 string.
.P
The syntax is:
.DS
.sp
   <foreground colour>[:<background colour>[:<attribute]]
.DE
.P
For example:
.DS
.sp
.nf
   \f4SG_TWO_TASK=red:black:off\f1
   \f4SG_ORACLE_SID=green:blue:bold\f1
.ft
.DE
.P
Valid colours are those supported by the VT colour system. That is:
black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white.
.P
Attributes are bold or underline.
.P
Specifiying an invalid colour will result in the colour black being used.
Specifiying an invalid attribute will result in none being used.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony(santhony@me.com)
