.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.nr X
.TH rwid 1 "05 Jun 2001" ""
.SH NAME
rwid \- print value of RapidWiz installation owner
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3rwid\f1 [\f3-1\f1]
[\f3-i\f1|\f3\-f\f2file\f1|\f3-p\f2pattern\f1...|[\f3-d\f2path\f1][\f3-o\f2path\f1]] \f2s_systemname\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rwid"
The \f3rwid\f1 command 
is useful to employ in shell scripts where the name of the owner of
a RapidWiz installation for \f2s_systemname\f1 is to be determined.
.P
\f3rwid\f1 uses
.BR rwtop (1)
to determine the value of \f5DB_TOP\f1 (or \f5ORA_TOP\f1) for \f2s_systemname\f1 and
then searches for
the set-userid executable file \f5oracle\f1 for which to examine ownership.
.P
\f3rwid\f1 first attempts to search for the \f5oracle\f1 executable in
\f5DB_TOP\f1 if it exists (this can be explicitly provided with the \f3-d\f1
option.) If no such file exists, the search continues with \f5ORA_TOP\f1 and
looks for a well known object file, such as \f5rdbms/lib/xaonsl.o\f1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-1\f1
Ordinarily, for all paths other than \f5DATA_TOP\f1s, if multiple paths 
are found an error is returned. This option overrides this behaviour and returns
the valid first path found. To determine the valid path which corresponds to
the user id returned use \f3rwtop -v ...\f1.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1
Verbose logging turned on. Print list of all paths visited on standard error.
.TP
\f3\-f \f2file\f1
.TP
\f3\-p \f2pattern\f1
These options are passed to 
.BR rwtop (1)
which \f3rwid\f1 uses to determine \f5DB_TOP\f1 and/or \f5ORA_TOP\f1.
.TP
\f3\-d \f2path\f1
The path of DB_TOP can be supplied as \f2path\f1. This,
unlike the \f3-f\f1 and \f3-p\f1 options, must be a pathname and
contain no metacharacters. That is:
.P
.RS 10
\f5rwid -d /u07/app/oracle/ep34db EP34\f1
.RE
.IP
is acceptable since it is a single path. As is:
.LP
.RS 10
\f5rwid -d /u07/app/oracle/*db EP34\f1
.RE
.IP
if it expands to a single pathname in the current shell. Likewise:
.P
.RS 10
\f5rwid -d /u??/app/oracle/ep34db EP34\f1
.RE
.IP
if this expands to a single path.
.IP
However, the following are not valid:
.P
.RS 10
\f5rwid -d '/u??/app/oracle/ep34db' EP34\f1
.RE
.IP
is a quoted string containing metacharacters (which will therefore not be 
expanded by the shell); and
.P
.RS 10
\f5rwid -d /u??/app/oracle/* EP34\f1
.RE
.IP
which expands to a number of paths.
.TP
\f3\-o \f2path\f1
The same function as for \f3-d\f1 except that \f2path\f1 is \f5ORA_TOP\f1.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
\f5$ORA_TOP/*/bin/oracle\f1
.TP 20
\f5$ORA_TOP/*/rdbms/lib/xaonsl.o\f1.
.TP 20
\f5$DB_TOP/*/bin/oracle\f1
Installation owner will own these files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rwtop (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \f3rwid\f1 cannot determine the owner of \f2s_systemname\f1 a non-zero status
is returned.
