.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 CO
.fp 6 CI
.fp 7 CB
.nr X
.TH setdb 1 "21 Apr 2007" ""
.SH NAME
setdb \- set environment for database access
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3FPATH=BASEDIR/share/lib/functions export FPATH\f1
.sp
\f3setdb\f1 [\f3-b\f1] [\f3-o\f1|\f3-t \f2two_task\f1] [\f2oracle_sid\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setdb"
.sp
.P
\f3setdb\f1 
sets the current shell environment with approriate values for a valid \f3ORACLE_HOME\f1.
.P
If \f3-o\f1 or \f3-t\f1 are present then the oratab file is searched for
\f2oracle_sid\f1.
Previous \f3ORACLE_HOME\f1s found in \f3PATH\f1 (that are present in the
oratab file) are removed when a successful match is found.
.P
Otherwise, a search is made for an E-Business database context
file with the context variable "s_systemname" equal to \f2oracle_sid\f1 and its settings used to supply values.
.P
If \f2oracle_sid\f1 is not supplied an attempt to guess its value is made based on the
current user id.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-o\f1
Search the oratab file for value \f2oracle_sid\f1, using this to set the 
\f3ORACLE_HOME\f1 and the \f3ORACLE_SID\f1 value.
.IP
When invoked in this manner \f3setdb\f1 behaves like the typical invocation of \f3oraenv\f1:
.DS
.sp
.nf
\f1$ \f3ORACLE_SID=\f2oracle_sid\f1 \f3ORAENV_ASK=NO . oraenv\f1
.fi
.DE
.IP
On systems where
.BR getopts (1) 
recognises "\f3+\f1" as an option prefix, when specifying an ASM \f2oracle_sid\f1 either omit the leading "+".
.DS
.sp
.nf
\f1$ \f3setdb -o \f2ASM\f1
.fi
.DE
.IP
or terminate the option list in the standard fashion:
.DS
.sp
.nf
\f1$ \f3setdb -o -- \f2+ASM\f1
.fi
.DE
.TP
\f3-t \f2two_task\f1
Search the oratab file for \f2oracle_sid\f1, if specified, and use this to set the
\f3ORACLE_HOME\f1. If \f2oracle_sid\f1 is not specified, an entry matching
\f2two_task\f1 must exist in the oratab file.
\f3TWO_TASK\f1 is set from \f2two_task\f1 and must exist 
as a TNS alias in the usual location(s).
.TP
\f3-b\f1
Add \f3ORACLE_HOME\f1 as the beginning entry of the new value for \f3PATH\f1 rather
than the last. 
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.TP 30
\f5$HOME/.tnsnames.ora\f1
Local TNS alias file.
.TP 30
\f5$TNS_ADMIN/tnsnames.ora\f1
Configured TNS alias file.
.TP 30
\f5$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin/tnsnames.ora\f1
Default TNS alias file.
.SH WARNINGS
.P
No search is made for TNS aliases in LDAP.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony(santhony@me.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pset (1)
